Episode 8, Elizabeth.
As we entered the huge oak doors to Miki’s personal office, I didn’t know what to expect.
But there he was, the same old Miki, sitting behind a massive desk and smoking a cigar.
As soon as he laid eyes on us, he jumped up, ran over and gave us both massive hugs.
“Oh, my God!” he said, “It’s so good to see you two!
“ Why didn’t you write to say you were coming?
I would have met you at the airport with a limo.”
“There’s no postal service between the UK and Ankhazastan,” I said, laughing.
“Next time, just go to our embassy in London, and
they’ll forward any messages to me,” he chided gently.
“Nabikiv, you old fool!” he barked, “Bring some vodka and three glasses!”
Drinking at eleven o’clock in the morning.
This was still the old Miki, all right.
We drank and we chatted; soon, we were transported back to our Hemsworth days…
just three old friends talking about old times, and a couple of hours flew past.
After some time, our talk turned to… difficult topics.
“Miki,” I said, “your palace is wonderful, but the rest of the country is…”
“ Falling to bits?” he laughed shyly.
“Yes, but it’s not like I can sell my palace and that’ll fix the entire country.
You have to be realistic.
And people expect a certain status from their leader.
It’s the culture here.”
“A leader needs a symbol of power”, George agreed, “But what about reforms?
Remember what you said the last time we met?”
“ Reforms are coming,” Miki assured us.
“After my father’s poisoning, we uncovered a group that
wanted to destabilise the country – communists and anarchists.
We entered what we called the Special Crisis Period.
“ The SCP lasted until now – it ends officially next week, in fact.
It took us five years to hunt down and arrest all of the members.
Reforms were impossible until now.”
“None of this was reported in the Western press,” I pointed out.
“I always looked for stories about you and Ankhazastan and there was nothing!”
“They’re more worried about ‘Y2K’,” Miki laughed.
“Were they… executed… these communists and anarchists?” George asked.
“Some,” Miki said gravely.
“It was the decision of the courts.
I didn’t interfere.
Heavy is the head that wears the crown, as they say.”
“But you’re still committed to reforms…,” I prompted.
“Starting next week!” Miki announced proudly.
“We’ll shift gears from the Special Crisis Period to the Special Reform
Period, starting with free Internet access to all citizens of Ankhazastan!
Anyway, enough politics, I want to hear how you guys have been doing…”
We spent the rest of the day chatting, dining and touring the palace grounds.
It was wonderful.
I still had feelings for him, and I’m pretty sure the feeling was mutual.
But with George here, we never had a moment alone.
Besides, I knew it might be another five years before I saw him again.